# [AbaqusTools](https://github.com/kun-Jiang/AbaqusTools)

A simple software GUI interface integrated with several python scripts for processing Abaqus input files.

## Launch
1. For windows, you can just double click the 'AbaqusTools_Run.bat' to open the GUI interface.
2. For linux, you need to run the 'AbaqusTools_Run.py' script in terminal or IDE.

## Functions
1. **InpSplit**: Split the Abaqus input file into several files according to the keyword (*Node, *Element, *Nset, *Elset are supported now). The split files will be saved in the subfolder named 'Model' which is in the same directory as the input file.
2. **Offset**: Generate offseted element set for ABAQUS input file. It is noticed that there are two kinds of element set file which generated by **InpSplit** script or you prepared
     + The first kind of element set file contains element numbers and node numbers. So we just need to offset the element numbers but not the node numbers. The offset result is like this (Offset magnitude is 10000):
        > ***1***, 1, 2, 4, 3 --> ***10001***, 1, 2, 4, 3
        >> **In order to identify this kind of element set file, The file name must be prefixed with *'Element'* and split with underscore. i.e. *Element_example.inp***
     + The second kind of element set file just contains element numbers and the quantity of element number in each line is not be constrained. So every number will be offseted. The offset result is like this (Offset magnitude is 10000):
        > ***1***, ***2***, ***3***, ***4*** --> ***10001***, ***10002***, ***10003***, ***10004***

   + This script will generate four files which represent preset four layers element. The layer name will be added to the end of the file name. i.e. *Element_example_Mech.inp*. The real offset magnitude is the product of the ***Offset magnitude*** and ***Multiplier***. For example, the real ffset magnitude of preset *Phase* layer is 10000*2=20000, so the offset result is like this:
      > ***1***, ***2***, ***3***, ***4*** --> ***20001***, ***20002***, ***20003***, ***20004***
3. **ODBExtract**: Extract the calculated results from the Abaqus output database file (.odb) and save them as text files (optional). The extracted files will be saved in the subfolder named 'Extracted results' which is in the same directory as the .obd file. The supported results are:
   + **S**: Stress components (i.e. S11 with **Output options**=S and **Suboptions**=11)
   + **E**: Strain components (i.e. E11 with **Output options**=E and **Suboptions**=11)
   + **U**: Displacement components (i.e. U1 with **Output options**=U and **Suboptions**=1)
   + **LE** logrithmic strain components (i.e. LE11 with **Output options**=LE and **Suboptions**=11)
   + **EVOL** element volume
   + **UVARM** user defined field variables (i.e. UVARM1 with **Output options**=UVARM and **Suboptions**=1)
   + **SDV** solution dependent state variables (i.e. SDV1 with **Output options**=SDV and **Suboptions**=1)